Sleeping Barber Problem (#6)
Serious-senpai/synchronization-problems: README.md

By understanding the ABA problem and implementing appropriate synchronization techniques, developers can ensure the integrity of data in multithreaded environments.

## Sleeping Barber Problem

The Sleeping Barber problem is a classic synchronization problem that illustrates the challenges of process management, specifically around CPU scheduling, resource allocation, and deadlock prevention.
The scenario is as follows:
* A barber works in a barbershop with one barber chair and a waiting room with several chairs.
* If there are no customers, the barber goes to sleep.
* When a customer arrives, if the barber is asleep, the customer wakes up the barber.
* If the barber is busy, the customer sits in the waiting room.
* If the waiting room is full, the customer leaves.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are two main complications. First, there is a risk that a race condition, where the barber sleeps while a customer waits for the barber to get them for a haircut, arises because all of the actions - checking the waiting room, entering the shop, taking a waiting room chair - take a certain amount of time. Specifically, a customer may arrive to find the barber cutting hair so they return to the waiting room to take a seat but while walking back to the waiting room the barber finishes the haircut and goes to the waiting room, which he finds empty (because the customer walks slowly) and thus goes to sleep in the barber chair. Second, another problem may occur when two customers arrive at the same time when there is only one empty seat in the waiting room and both try to sit in the single chair; only the first person to get to the chair will be able to sit.

A multiple sleeping barbers problem has the additional complexity of coordinating several barbers among the waiting customers.
```

### Example

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <thread>
#include <mutex>
#include <condition_variable>
#include <queue>
std::mutex mtx;
std::condition_variable cv_barber;
std::condition_variable cv_customer;

> std::queue<int> customers;
> const int NUM_CHAIRS = 5;
> bool done = false;
> void barber()
> {
>     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(mtx);
>     while (!done)
>     {
>         while (customers.empty())
>         {
>             // Barber goes to sleep if no customers
>             std::cout << "Barber is sleeping." << std::endl;
>             cv_barber.wait(lk);
>         }
>         // Barber is cutting hair
>         std::cout << "Barber is cutting hair of customer " << customers.front() << std::endl;
>         customers.pop();
>         // Notify waiting customers
>         cv_customer.notify_one();
>     }
> }
> void customer(int id)
> {
>     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(mtx);
>     if (customers.size() < NUM_CHAIRS)
>     {
>         // Customer sits in waiting room
>         customers.push(id);
>         std::cout << "Customer " << id << " is waiting." << std::endl;
>         // Wake up the barber if sleeping
>         cv_barber.notify_one();
>         // Wait for the barber to be ready
>         cv_customer.wait(lk, [&]{ return customers.front() == id; });
>     }
>     else
>     {
>         // Waiting room is full
>         std::cout << "Customer " << id << " leaves as waiting room is full." << std::endl;
>     }
> }
> int main()
> {
>     std::thread barber_thread(barber);
>     std::thread customers_thread[NUM_CHAIRS];
>     // Create customer threads
>     for (int i = 0; i < NUM_CHAIRS; ++i)
>     {
>         customers_thread[i] = std::thread(customer, i+1);
>     }
>     // Join customer threads
>     for (auto& th : customers_thread)
>     {
>         th.join();
>     }
>     // End of the day
>     done = true;
>     cv_barber.notify_one();
>     barber_thread.join();
>     return 0;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <windows.h>

HANDLE barber_ready = CreateSemaphoreW(NULL, 0, 1, NULL);
HANDLE read_write_seats = CreateSemaphoreW(NULL, 1, 1, NULL);
HANDLE ready_customers = CreateSemaphoreW(NULL, 0, 1, NULL);

int free_seats = 3; // assume there are 3 seats in the waiting room

DWORD WINAPI barber(void *)
{
    while (true)
    {
        WaitForSingleObject(ready_customers, INFINITE);
        WaitForSingleObject(read_write_seats, INFINITE);

        free_seats++;

        ReleaseSemaphore(barber_ready, 1, NULL);
        ReleaseSemaphore(read_write_seats, 1, NULL);

        // cut hair
        std::cout << "Cutting hair\n";
    }
}

DWORD WINAPI customer(void *)
{
    while (true)
    {
        WaitForSingleObject(read_write_seats, INFINITE);
        if (free_seats > 0)
        {
            free_seats--;
            ReleaseSemaphore(ready_customers, 1, NULL);
            ReleaseSemaphore(read_write_seats, 1, NULL);
            WaitForSingleObject(barber_ready, INFINITE);

            // have a hair cut
        }
        else
        {
            ReleaseSemaphore(read_write_seats, 1, NULL);
            std::cout << "No empty slots, leaving...\n";
        }
    }
}

int main()
{
    HANDLE barber_thread = CreateThread(NULL, 0, &barber, NULL, 0, NULL);

    std::vector<HANDLE> customer_threads;
    for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++)
    {
        customer_threads.push_back(CreateThread(NULL, 0, &customer, NULL, 0, NULL));
    }

    WaitForSingleObject(barber_thread, INFINITE);
    for (auto &thread : customer_threads)
    {
        WaitForSingleObject(thread, INFINITE);
    }

    return 0;
}
```
